Or whether he just went back to the department for a while.
I guess maybe he did retire.
I know we made a trip to California.
We were in a cafe in Santa Barbara and suddenly saw Byers across the room.
I went over and talked to him.
Anyway, Calhoun brought with him as his associate academic vice president Dick Winerdi, who had the ambition to become graduate dean, I think.
And Calhoun made it awful hard on George for a long time, and I never had much use for
He's become a great friend now, and I always respected Winerdi in a way because he stayed with his wife in spite of her cancer and losing her leg and all that, which a lot of people wouldn't have done.
But I sure wouldn't have wanted him as my boss, I'll tell you.
Why not?
He thought he was the greatest thing since sliced cheese.
I couldn't work for him.
I just couldn't.
Did Calhoun change the duties, the task of the graduate college in any way?
Basically, no.
I was hoping that's the answer you would give.
He made it.
hard on George but he didn't really change anything.
Actually if he changed anything, well the only thing he could have changed was to
Well, they did a few years later, much to the joy of the deans and much to the detriment of the graduate program, I think.
But that's after you, isn't it?
Yeah.
I was the last graduate dean unless they reestablished it.
All right.
Dr. Calhoun, when he became the vice president for academic
Yeah.
When Dr. Calhoun became the vice president, he moved the VP office over to the Teague Building.
You all remained in the Koch Building, didn't you?
No, we moved to Teague Building at some point in time.
But not as soon as he moved.
That was after you became the dean, didn't he?
No.
Oh.
Was it with George?
Yeah, we were in the coat building for a long time.
The medical school was down the hall and we shared a coffee area.
We used to eat lunch in my office.
We all took our lunch.
We were sitting there one day, looked up at the wall.
They put the bookshelves up with these screws in the drywall, and I looked up, and the books were all peeling off the wall and coming right onto the drawers.
He let out a yell, and he ducked, and the whole thing just crashed all around you.
All right, now, in the last Rutter years and the Williams years, the graduate programs began to grow in number and variety and quality.
Describe how and why that came about.
I think Williams and Calhoun both wanted the graduate program to grow.
The better departments were encouraged to establish degree programs.
Where did the funding come from?
Well, the funding came through the departments, actually.
And where'd they get it, though?
Depended on who they were.
Education got theirs from the Department of Education in the state, and science got theirs primarily from National Science Foundation with a few
Others like the DEA and folks in the research.
Which deans deserve the highest credit for moving their graduate programs forward?
Which colleges or schools did?
Science, certainly.
Under John Fackler, grew tremendously.
Education grew, but I'm not sure.
Under Hubert and then Corrigan?
Yeah, of course they do.
But I've always been hesitant about the quality of education.
I guess it's because they probably don't understand it, but it seems to me that their quality is not what it should be.
Now, you became dean when?
No, but you became dean when?
84.
84, okay.
So during those years of Williams, Jarvis Miller, Vandiver, under those presidents, were there any opportunities at the graduate level that you now in hindsight think we missed?
are there some things that we might have done and or might have done better well we might have not done away with the graduate college right whose idea was that uh i'm not sure because uh who went to iowa uh eat gordon eaton when he heard that
They'd done away with the graduate college.
He said, that's not what I recommended.
And Matt Prescott was academic vice president then, and I'm not sure he was enthusiastic about it.
Vanderbilt is a guy who did it, I think.
And Anderson, who was vice president of research,
was all for it, because he wanted to get his hands on the budget.
And I noticed after I retired and took over my old office, we had all new furniture.
He was acting as the Colt graduate dean and vice president for research.
And just about killed the person who was my executive secretary in that year.
And she retired, got away from me.
All right.
So you worked with George Coombs for 15 years or so.
What were some of the happiest moments?
Christmas parties.
Where did you all have the Christmas parties?
Oh, I think when we got some of our degree programs through the coordinating board were happy times.
Describe getting a program through the coordinating board.
What all did it take?
Well, first of all, the department would have to
propose a program, they'd have to go through all the channels at the university.
Then it would go to the coordinating board and the board would review it.
And they'd also send it out to all the other universities for them to review.
And if they thought it was going to impinge on their territory, they'd recommend against it.
So it was a give and take thing.
What institutions were the major obstacles to get them approved?
What other Texas schools were the?
I would say probably University of Houston and University of Texas.
Do you remember any that were turned down that should have been approved?
Yeah, an architecture that was one of which is now approved.
for building construction, I think, that somebody didn't want done.
There's a music program now that's approved, I think, which would have been nice to have done.
But we didn't seek a music program then, did we?
Did we end up losing many of those battles, or did we eventually win in almost every case for the new?
I think we eventually won in almost every case.
That's what I thought.
Yeah.
It was a long, drawn-out process, but I can't think of a single one that we lost.
Can you remember any kind of goofy moments?
Silly, strange, weird?
Yeah, not really.
Ken Ashworth was the commissioner in those years.
What do you mean?
Yeah.
Oh, there were a lot of goofy moments.
Such as?
People would get up and make a long speech that didn't have anything to do with what the problem was.
Yeah, Ken Ashworth was the commissioner.
And when I retired, he called me up and let me come over there for a year when they had a vacancy.
I couldn't see going to Austin for a year.
He meant to join his staff for a year.
Describe him, the way he handled his duties as commissioner.
I think he did a good job.
I would sure give him high marks.
Yeah, I would too.
I wouldn't give his wife high marks.
No, I wouldn't either.
But I'd give him high marks.
And in general, was A&M treated fairly by him and his staff?
I think so.
I don't think anybody was ever treated unfairly over there.
A lot of people thought they were, but it was my impression that they were pretty level-handed.
In getting new degrees approved on campus, what were the major hurdles on campus?
The department submitted a proposal to the graduate college
Well, no, it had to go through their dean.
Through their dean.
Then where?
To the graduate college.
But the graduate college didn't make any decision really.
It went to the graduate council, which had representatives from all the colleges and then elected members too.
Who chaired the council?
The dean.
Did the council give approval in general where it should have?
Yeah, I think with a few exceptions the Graduate Council did a good job.
They got a little bit, what am I trying to say?
They got factionists, I guess.
They had factions that were fighting.
In general, the factions were included whom?
Who was on what?
Well, I didn't know there were factions, but it turns out there were factions.
And I didn't find out there were factions until much after the fact.
Did agriculture and engineering quite often?
No, these were not program type factions.
They were people trying to get into the office of the graduate dean.
People who didn't want people in.
It got pretty messy at the end.
Right.
During all of your years of service, either as associate dean or as dean, do you remember any effort by a politician, a former student, any kind of outsider, do you remember any attempt to interfere in the graduate matters?
It may have happened with the dean, but with me it never happened.
No Board of Regents?
No.
It happened when I was at NSF.
It never happened here for me.
During all of those years, back to some of, I said, the happy moments, some of the proudest moments when you thought we were really making progress?
You know, Haskell, I can't think of...
particularly proud moment or a particularly bad moment, it kept things pretty much uneven.
I guess one of my proudest moments was when I was elected chairman of the Council of Graduate Schools in Texas.
When did that come?
Early 80s?
Yeah.
And what did that...
Cozy was still dean.
Who?
Oh.
Cozy was still dean, but he appointed me the A&M representative to the Council of Texas Graduate Schools.
Describe that organization.
It was an organization of all the graduate schools in Texas.
Which met once a year just to discuss problems, have drinks.
You all met about how often?
Once a year.
In Austin?
No, seldom in Austin.
Matter of fact, I don't think we ever met in Austin.
Who were the most significant people or institutions during that time?
Who were the leaders?
I became very friendly with the dean at Baylor and the dean at Texas and East Texas State.
Of course, now a lot of those are A&M.
But everybody seemed to just be on a par in that organization.
Nobody pushed anybody around.
Now, was everybody's graduate program growing during those years?
I think so.
And whom did you consider our Texas A&M's cohorts?
Who were our A&M's at the graduate level, who were the primary equals of A&M?
In Texas?
Well, it depends on the field.
There wasn't anybody.
for example, who could compete in veterinary medicine, because we had the only one.
Engineering, I would guess UT and A&M were on a par, or UT was a little ahead of us.
And science, there were certain areas where A&M was ahead and certain areas where
E.T.
was ahead.
Geoscience, we were way ahead in most everything except geophysics.
Education, there were such a thing as being ahead in education.
I guess we were at least on par with everybody else.
Did the private schools participate fully in that?
Yeah.
Rice and SMU and Baylor and so forth?
All of them.
Who were your, which schools were your favorite colleagues?
Oh, as I said, Angelo's State.
Oh, you mentioned that.
I'm sorry.
Yeah.
The University of Houston didn't participate because they didn't have a graduate school.
They were like A&M as well, splattered all over.
And they decided they had to get a graduate school.
It just wasn't working the way it was.
And they appointed an associate provost to bring everything back together and reestablish a graduate school, and he couldn't do it.
The deans just had too much power.
The office moved under Calhoun, moved over from the Koch building to the Teague building, and then how long did it remain there?
It was there during all of your years.
And who were the key office staff members while you were in the 70s and 80s?
Well, Jane Thompson was executive secretary.
Describe Jane.
She was a very emotional person.
Had a lot of family problems.
Now, her mother had also worked on the campus a long time, hadn't she?
She grew up in the systems building.
Okay.
What is now the Jack Williams building.
Yeah.
And was she the key staff member for Coonsey and you?
Reliable?
Totally reliable.
Hard worker?
Hard worker.
Did she ever, did she have the spunk to call attention to what she thought was an error in judgment that y'all were, how did she do that?
How'd she go about it?
Just come in and say, look at this.
And I'll tell you, the three years I was dean, I'm not sure I could have survived without her.
knew when certain reports were due and she knew when everything was due and many times she did most of the reports herself.
And how did you attempt to convey to her your appreciation of her efforts?
I thanked her.
It was interesting.
I used to give her a scarf every Christmas.
Finally one day she said, you know I'm not a scarf person.
So I started giving her something else for Christmas.
Let's see, then in terms of the vice presidents,
before we call them provost.
Calhoun is followed by Mac Prescott in 1977.
Describe the way he related to the graduate college compared to Calhoun.
Well, there were a lot of changes.
Gordon Heaton was in between.
No.
Heaton's after Prescott.
Jarvis picked Prescott.
Prescott was after.
No, because see, that's when I'm dean of faculties.
Well, I was reporting to Prescott the last year I was in office.
And then Eaton follows, Eaton was dean over in geosciences, and then he follows under Vandiver, he follows Prescott.
Well, Prescott must have
I don't know.
Who followed him?
Is it Donald McDonald, the business dean?
Well, I don't know, Haskell, but the last person that I reported to was Prescott.
Because Prescott left in 82, I think, under Vandiver.
Because apparently he and Vandiver didn't drive that well.
Well, anyway, describe what were the different, did Prescott change anything from the way Calhoun did?
Nobody changed anything until we got a vice president for research.
And they put the Graduate College under Anderson and then everything fell apart.
Now whose decision was that?
I think it was Vanderveer's.
And I, my last year, I was supposed to report to Anderson and I wouldn't.
And I swear I went to Prescott.
It sure wasn't eaten.
But anyway, I would never report directly to Anderson.
Why did you feel that was inappropriate?
Because he was trying to rob the budget of the graduate colleges as academic vice president for research.
I don't know.
I was all in favor of him when they reviewed him.
And when he got there, he was nothing like he came across in the reviews.
Where did he come from?
Was he an outsider?
Yeah.
New to A&M?
He was a Jack Mormon, but he may have come from Utah.
I'm not sure.
But he had no relationship with any of them at all.
Now, am I correct in thinking that one of the primary functions of the graduate college was quality control of graduate work?
Right.
Yeah, that was one of our biggest problems was controlling quality.
People in, well, for example, chemistry
degree program composed a hundred percent of research, and people in education would want a Ph.D. program with only four or five hours of research.
They're going to do it anyway, but at least you can make it look good.
We made, we required the chemistry people to take some courses and we required the education people to officially complete some research.
They obviously were going to have to do it whether it was on their degree program or not.
But we turned down some degree thesis, dissertation proposals too.
Give some examples of the sort of thing that- We had one guy that wanted to write a dissertation on singing cadets.
There's not much dissertation quality material in the singing cadets.
But the main sponsor we had in the dissertations were actually in, dissertation proposals were actually in education.
Then there was always English which, where they never wanted anybody to finish.
What do you mean?
Well, they just seemed to, well, history was much the same way.
They wanted a book instead of a dissertation.
Oh, you went on and on and on?
Yeah.
700 page dissertation.
Do you remember any of the extreme, like for that, some examples of the briefest and the longest?
No.
I never looked at very many dissertations.
The only time I'd ever look at a dissertation was when the thesis and dissertation clerk had a problem that she couldn't solve with the chairman of the department.